Re-host Nexus on vm (#1584)
microsoft/AzureTRE: docs/tre-admins/setup-instructions/configuring-shared-services.md

# Configuring Shared Services

## Deploy/configure Nexus

> There is a new Nexus shared service which can be located in the `./templates/shared_services/sonatype-nexus-vm` directory, with the bundle name `tre-shared-service-sonatype-nexus`, which is now hosted using a VM to enable additional configuration required for proxying certain repositories.

Author: Moved to its own section below set up guide

      "ssl_cert_name": "nexus-ssl"
    }
  }
  ```

!!! tip
    If you called your cert something different in the certs shared service step, make sure that is reflected above.

This will deploy the infrastructure required for Nexus, then start the service and configure it with the repository configurations located in the `./templates/shared_services/sonatype-nexus-vm/scripts/nexus_repos_config` folder. It will also set up HTTPS using the certificate you generated in the previous section, so proxies can be served at `https://nexus-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com`.

You can optionally go to the Nexus web interface by visiting `https://nexus-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com/` in the jumpbox and signing in with the username `admin` and the password secret located in your core keyvault, with the key `nexus-admin-password`. Here you should be able to see all of the configured repositories and you can use the UI to manage settings etc.

Just bear in mind that if this service is redeployed any changes in the UI won't be persisted. If you wish to add new repositories or alter existing ones, use the JSON files within the `./nexus_repos_config` directory.

> ### B. Migrate from existing Nexus service (hosted on App Service)

Reviewer: Don't think this will work as the workspace will be missing the DNS zone.

Author: Have added a note requiring workspace version `0.2.14` or above

Complete the configuration of the shared services (Nexus and Gitea) from inside of the TRE environment.

## Configure Nexus

> Before deploying the Nexus shared service, you need to make sure that it will have access to a certificate to configure serving proxies over https with. By default, the Nexus service will serve proxies from `https://nexus-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com/`, and thus it requires a certificate that validates ownership of this domain to use for SSL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before deploying the Nexus shared service, you need to make sure that it will have access to a certificate to configure serving secure proxies. By default, the Nexus service will serve proxies from `https://nexus-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com/`, and thus it requires a certificate that validates ownership of this domain to use for SSL.
```

      "domain_prefix": "nexus",
      "cert_name": "nexus-ssl"
    }
  }
  ```

1. Once the shared service has been deployed (which you can check by querying the `/api/shared-services/operations` method), copy its `resource_id`, then find the `POST` operation for `/api/shared-services/{shared_service_id}/invoke_action`, click `Try it out` and paste in the resource id into the `shared_service_id` field, and enter `generate` into the `action` field, then click `Execute`.

This will invoke the certs service to use Letsencrypt to generate a certificate for the specified domain prefix followed by `-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com`, so in our case, having entered `nexus`, this will be `nexus-{TRE_ID}.{LOCATION}.cloudapp.azure.com`, which will be the public domain for our Nexus service.

Once this has completed, you can verify its success either from the operation output, or by navigating to your core keyvault (`kv-{TRE_ID}`) and looking for a certificate called `nexus-ssl`.

After verifying the certificate has been generated, you can deploy Nexus:

1. Run the below commands in your terminal to build, publish and register the Nexus shared service bundle:

  ```cmd

>   make bundle-build DIR=./templates/shared_services/certs

Reviewer: @ross-p-smith should these be the nexus bundle not certs?

>   make bundle-build DIR=./templates/shared_services/certs
>   make bundle-publish DIR=./templates/shared_services/certs
>   make bundle-register DIR=./templates/shared_services/certs BUNDLE_TYPE=shared_service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  make bundle-build DIR=./templates/shared_services/sonatype-nexus
  make bundle-publish DIR=./templates/shared_services/sonatype-nexus
  make bundle-register DIR=./templates/shared_services/sonatype-nexus BUNDLE_TYPE=shared_service
```
